Extragalactic exoplanets

The proposed pointing for Campaign 8 of the K2 Mission presents an
unprecedented opportunity to discover and characterize planets transiting stars
belonging to the Sagittarius Stellar Stream (Sgr stream). The Sgr stream is a
well-studied tidal debris structure that wraps around the entire Milky Way and
is detected in many different stellar populations (from main sequence to M and
K giant stars). The nearest sections of the stream visible in Field 8 span a
range of distances from 10-30 kpc, closer than satellite galaxies around the
Milky Way but still many times the distance of the farthest known transiting
exoplanets. However, even at these distances, K2 will be able to easily
observe giant stars (Kp ~ XX mag).

We have developed a method for exoplanet transit search using K2 data that
resulted in the publication of the first systematic catalog of transit
candidates based on a K2 data release. This method can robustly detect
transiting exoplanets despite the large systematic variability introduced by
the diminished pointing precision of the Kepler spacecraft and it is reasonably
complete to faint apparent magnitudes (Kp ~ 17-18 mag).

We propose to target the brightest (~100) Sgr stream member stars in Campaign 8
of the K2 Mission and, using our transit detection procedure, search the light
curves for large planets transiting these giant stars. These signals will be
small and the light curves will be noisy, therefore robust noise modeling will
be crucial for transit signal discovery. While the chance of discovering a
transiting planet belonging to the Sgr stream is low, the cost is low and the
discovery of even a single transiting planet of extragalactic origin would be
exciting.
